docs/store/sandbox.mdx, before:

---
title: Sandbox
description: "Execute code in isolated, ephemeral sandbox environments"
---

The Sandbox API provides secure, isolated environments for executing shell commands. 
Each sandbox is a temporary container that runs independently, perfect for running untrusted code or testing scripts.

{/* ## Setup Sandbox for your Agent

<Card title="Agentic Bash Tools" icon="terminal" href="/tool/bash_tools">
Give your agent the ability to execute commands with pre-built tools.
</Card>

If you'd like to know the details of Sandbox APIs, please read the following documentation. */}

## What you'll build

In this quickstart, you'll learn how to:

- Create a sandbox environment
- Execute shell commands
- Capture output and exit codes
- Transfer files between disk and sandbox
- Clean up when finished

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:
- An Acontext API key from [Acontext Dashboard](https://dash.acontext.io), or [local deployment](/settings/local)

## Initialize the client

First, create a client instance with your API key.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient

client = AcontextClient(
    api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
)

# If you're using self-hosted Acontext:
# client = AcontextClient(
#     base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1",
#     api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
# )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient } from '@acontext/acontext';

const client = new AcontextClient({
    apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
});

// If you're using self-hosted Acontext:
// const client = new AcontextClient({
//     baseUrl: "http://localhost:8029/api/v1",
//     apiKey: "sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
// });
```
</CodeGroup>

<Warning>
Never hardcode API keys in production code. Use environment variables instead.
</Warning>

## Step-by-step tutorial

<Steps>
<Step title="Create a sandbox">
Create a new isolated sandbox environment.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Create a new sandbox
sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()

print(f"Sandbox ID: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
print(f"Status: {sandbox.sandbox_status}")
print(f"Expires at: {sandbox.sandbox_expires_at}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Create a new sandbox
const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();

console.log(`Sandbox ID: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
console.log(`Status: ${sandbox.sandbox_status}`);
console.log(`Expires at: ${sandbox.sandbox_expires_at}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

The sandbox object contains:
- `sandbox_id`: Unique sandbox identifier
- `sandbox_status`: Current status (running, killed, paused, error)
- `sandbox_created_at`: ISO 8601 creation timestamp
- `sandbox_expires_at`: ISO 8601 expiration timestamp

<Check>
Save the sandbox ID - you'll need it to execute commands.
</Check>
</Step>

<Step title="Execute a command">
Run a shell command inside the sandbox and capture the output.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Execute a command
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="echo 'Hello from sandbox!' && pwd"
)

print(f"stdout: {result.stdout}")
print(f"stderr: {result.stderr}")
print(f"exit_code: {result.exit_code}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Execute a command
const result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "echo 'Hello from sandbox!' && pwd"
});

console.log(`stdout: ${result.stdout}`);
console.log(`stderr: ${result.stderr}`);
console.log(`exit_code: ${result.exit_code}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

The response includes:
- `stdout`: Standard output from the command
- `stderr`: Standard error from the command
- `exit_code`: Exit code (0 for success)

<Tip>
Chain multiple commands with `&&` or `;` to run them sequentially in a single call.
</Tip>
</Step>

<Step title="Kill the sandbox">
Terminate the sandbox when you're done.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Kill the sandbox
client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
print("Sandbox terminated")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Kill the sandbox
await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
console.log("Sandbox terminated");
```
</CodeGroup>

<Warning>
Sandboxes automatically expire after a timeout(default 30 minutes). 
Always kill sandboxes when finished to free up resources.
</Warning>
</Step>
</Steps>

### Complete example

Here's a complete working example that demonstrates the full workflow:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient

def main():
    # Initialize client
    client = AcontextClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
    )
    
    try:
        # Create sandbox
        sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
        print(f"✓ Created sandbox: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
        
        # Execute commands
        result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="python3 --version"
        )
        print(f"✓ Python version: {result.stdout.strip()}")
        
        # Run a Python script
        result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="python3 -c 'print(sum(range(10)))'"
        )
        print(f"✓ Script output: {result.stdout.strip()}")
        
        # Clean up
        client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
        print("✓ Sandbox terminated")
        
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"✗ Error: {e}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient } from '@acontext/acontext';

async function main() {
    // Initialize client
    const client = new AcontextClient({
        apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
    });
    
    try {
        // Create sandbox
        const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
        console.log(`✓ Created sandbox: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
        
        // Execute commands
        let result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "python3 --version"
        });
        console.log(`✓ Python version: ${result.stdout.trim()}`);
        
        // Run a Python script
        result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "python3 -c 'print(sum(range(10)))'"
        });
        console.log(`✓ Script output: ${result.stdout.trim()}`);
        
        // Clean up
        await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
        console.log("✓ Sandbox terminated");
        
    } catch (error) {
        console.error(`✗ Error: ${error}`);
    }
}

main();
```
</CodeGroup>

## Filesystem

Use the [Disk API](/store/disk) to persist files and transfer them to/from sandboxes. This enables workflows where you prepare files, process them in a sandbox, and save the results.

<Steps>
<Step title="Create a disk and sandbox">
Set up both a disk for persistent storage and a sandbox for execution.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Create a disk for file storage
disk = client.disks.create()
print(f"Disk ID: {disk.id}")

# Create a sandbox for execution
sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
print(f"Sandbox ID: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Create a disk for file storage
const disk = await client.disks.create();
console.log(`Disk ID: ${disk.id}`);

// Create a sandbox for execution
const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
console.log(`Sandbox ID: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Upload a file to disk">
Upload a file to your disk that you want to process in the sandbox.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from acontext import FileUpload

# Upload a script to the disk
artifact = client.disks.artifacts.upsert(
    disk.id,
    file=FileUpload(
        filename="data.txt",
        content=b"Hello from disk!\nProcess this in sandbox."
    ),
    file_path="/input/"
)
print(f"Uploaded: {artifact.path}{artifact.filename}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileUpload } from '@acontext/acontext';

// Upload a script to the disk
const artifact = await client.disks.artifacts.upsert(disk.id, {
    file: new FileUpload({
        filename: "data.txt",
        content: Buffer.from("Hello from disk!\nProcess this in sandbox."),
        contentType: "text/plain"
    }),
    filePath: "/input/"
});
console.log(`Uploaded: ${artifact.path}${artifact.filename}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Download file to sandbox">
Transfer the file from disk to the sandbox filesystem.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Download artifact to sandbox
success = client.disks.artifacts.download_to_sandbox(
    disk_id=disk.id,
    file_path="/input/",
    filename="data.txt",
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandbox_path="/workspace/"
)
print(f"Download success: {success}")

# Verify the file exists in sandbox
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="cat /workspace/data.txt"
)
print(f"File content: {result.stdout}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Download artifact to sandbox
const success = await client.disks.artifacts.downloadToSandbox(disk.id, {
    filePath: "/input/",
    filename: "data.txt",
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandboxPath: "/workspace/"
});
console.log(`Download success: ${success}`);

// Verify the file exists in sandbox
const result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "cat /workspace/data.txt"
});
console.log(`File content: ${result.stdout}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
The file is copied to the sandbox at the specified path. The original filename is preserved.
</Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Process and create output">
Run commands in the sandbox to process files and generate output.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Process the file and create output
client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="wc -l /workspace/data.txt > /workspace/result.txt"
)

# Verify the output
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="cat /workspace/result.txt"
)
print(f"Result: {result.stdout}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Process the file and create output
await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "wc -l /workspace/data.txt > /workspace/result.txt"
});

// Verify the output
const output = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "cat /workspace/result.txt"
});
console.log(`Result: ${output.stdout}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Upload result to disk">
Save the processed output from the sandbox back to persistent disk storage.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Upload the result from sandbox to disk
uploaded = client.disks.artifacts.upload_from_sandbox(
    disk_id=disk.id,
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandbox_path="/workspace/",
    sandbox_filename="result.txt",
    file_path="/output/"
)
print(f"Saved: {uploaded.path}{uploaded.filename}")

# Verify by reading from disk
artifact_info = client.disks.artifacts.get(
    disk.id,
    file_path="/output/",
    filename="result.txt",
    with_content=True
)
print(f"Persisted content: {artifact_info.content.raw}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Upload the result from sandbox to disk
const uploaded = await client.disks.artifacts.uploadFromSandbox(disk.id, {
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandboxPath: "/workspace/",
    sandboxFilename: "result.txt",
    filePath: "/output/"
});
console.log(`Saved: ${uploaded.path}${uploaded.filename}`);

// Verify by reading from disk
const artifactInfo = await client.disks.artifacts.get(disk.id, {
    filePath: "/output/",
    filename: "result.txt",
    withContent: true
});
console.log(`Persisted content: ${artifactInfo.content?.raw}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

<Check>
Your processed file is now safely stored on the disk and will persist after the sandbox is terminated.
</Check>
</Step>

<Step title="Clean up">
Terminate the sandbox when processing is complete.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Kill the sandbox (disk persists)
client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
print("Sandbox terminated, files preserved on disk")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Kill the sandbox (disk persists)
await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
console.log("Sandbox terminated, files preserved on disk");
```
</CodeGroup>

<Tip>
The disk and its files remain available after the sandbox is killed. You can download them later or transfer to a new sandbox.
</Tip>
</Step>
</Steps>

### Complete example

Here's a complete working example that demonstrates the full disk-sandbox file transfer workflow:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient, FileUpload

def main():
    client = AcontextClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
    )
    
    try:
        # Create disk and sandbox
        disk = client.disks.create()
        sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
        print(f"✓ Created disk: {disk.id}")
        print(f"✓ Created sandbox: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
        
        # Upload input file to disk
        client.disks.artifacts.upsert(
            disk.id,
            file=FileUpload(filename="input.txt", content=b"Line 1\nLine 2\nLine 3"),
            file_path="/input/"
        )
        print("✓ Uploaded input file to disk")
        
        # Download to sandbox
        client.disks.artifacts.download_to_sandbox(
            disk_id=disk.id,
            file_path="/input/",
            filename="input.txt",
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandbox_path="/workspace/"
        )
        print("✓ Downloaded file to sandbox")
        
        # Process in sandbox
        client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="wc -l /workspace/input.txt > /workspace/output.txt"
        )
        print("✓ Processed file in sandbox")
        
        # Upload result back to disk
        client.disks.artifacts.upload_from_sandbox(
            disk_id=disk.id,
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandbox_path="/workspace/",
            sandbox_filename="output.txt",
            file_path="/output/"
        )
        print("✓ Uploaded result to disk")
        
        # Verify result
        result = client.disks.artifacts.get(
            disk.id,
            file_path="/output/",
            filename="output.txt",
            with_content=True
        )
        print(f"✓ Result: {result.content.raw.strip()}")
        
        # Cleanup
        client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
        client.disks.delete(disk.id)
        print("✓ Cleaned up resources")
        
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"✗ Error: {e}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient, FileUpload } from '@acontext/acontext';

async function main() {
    const client = new AcontextClient({
        apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
    });
    
    try {
        // Create disk and sandbox
        const disk = await client.disks.create();
        const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
        console.log(`✓ Created disk: ${disk.id}`);
        console.log(`✓ Created sandbox: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
        
        // Upload input file to disk
        await client.disks.artifacts.upsert(disk.id, {
            file: new FileUpload({
                filename: "input.txt",
                content: Buffer.from("Line 1\nLine 2\nLine 3"),
                contentType: "text/plain"
            }),
            filePath: "/input/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Uploaded input file to disk");
        
        // Download to sandbox
        await client.disks.artifacts.downloadToSandbox(disk.id, {
            filePath: "/input/",
            filename: "input.txt",
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandboxPath: "/workspace/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Downloaded file to sandbox");
        
        // Process in sandbox
        await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "wc -l /workspace/input.txt > /workspace/output.txt"
        });
        console.log("✓ Processed file in sandbox");
        
        // Upload result back to disk
        await client.disks.artifacts.uploadFromSandbox(disk.id, {
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandboxPath: "/workspace/",
            sandboxFilename: "output.txt",
            filePath: "/output/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Uploaded result to disk");
        
        // Verify result
        const result = await client.disks.artifacts.get(disk.id, {
            filePath: "/output/",
            filename: "output.txt",
            withContent: true
        });
        console.log(`✓ Result: ${result.content?.raw.trim()}`);
        
        // Cleanup
        await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
        await client.disks.delete(disk.id);
        console.log("✓ Cleaned up resources");
        
    } catch (error) {
        console.error(`✗ Error: ${error}`);
    }
}

main();
```
</CodeGroup>

## Common use cases

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Code execution" icon="play">
Run user-submitted code safely in an isolated environment without risking your host system.
</Card>

<Card title="Script testing" icon="flask">
Test shell scripts, installation procedures, or build processes in a clean environment.
</Card>

<Card title="Agent tools" icon="robot">
Give AI agents the ability to execute commands and interact with a file system safely.
</Card>

<Card title="Data processing" icon="gears">
Run data transformation scripts or command-line tools on files without affecting your main system.
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Command timeout">
**Problem**: Command takes too long and times out.

**Solution**: 
- Break long-running commands into smaller steps
- Check if the command is waiting for input (use non-interactive flags)
- Consider running background processes if needed
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Sandbox not found">
**Problem**: Getting a 404 error when executing commands.

**Solution**: 
- Verify the sandbox ID is correct
- Check if the sandbox has expired or been killed
- Create a new sandbox if the previous one is no longer available
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Command fails with non-zero exit code">
**Problem**: Command returns a non-zero exit code.

**Solution**: 
- Check `stderr` for error messages
- Verify the command syntax is correct
- Ensure required tools are available in the sandbox environment
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

Commit message:

feat(sandbox): implement CLI commands for managing Cloudflare sandbox projects with setup and documentation

docs/store/sandbox.mdx, after:

---
title: Sandbox
description: "Execute code in isolated, ephemeral sandbox environments"
---

The Sandbox API provides secure, isolated environments for executing shell commands. 
Each sandbox is a temporary container that runs independently, perfect for running untrusted code or testing scripts.

{/* ## Setup Sandbox for your Agent

<Card title="Agentic Bash Tools" icon="terminal" href="/tool/bash_tools">
Give your agent the ability to execute commands with pre-built tools.
</Card>

If you'd like to know the details of Sandbox APIs, please read the following documentation. */}

## What you'll build

In this quickstart, you'll learn how to:

- Create a sandbox environment
- Execute shell commands
- Capture output and exit codes
- Transfer files between disk and sandbox
- Clean up when finished

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:
- An Acontext API key from [Acontext Dashboard](https://dash.acontext.io), or [local deployment](/settings/local)

## CLI Setup

You can quickly set up a Cloudflare Sandbox Worker using the Acontext CLI:

```bash
# Start or create a sandbox project
acontext sandbox start
```

The CLI will:
- Scan for existing sandbox projects in `sandbox/` directory
- List available sandbox types to create (e.g., Cloudflare)
- Allow you to select an existing project to start or create a new one
- Automatically detect and use the appropriate package manager (pnpm, npm, yarn, bun)
- Start the development server automatically

**Example workflow:**
1. Run `acontext sandbox start`
2. Select from existing projects (e.g., `cloudflare (Local)`) or create new (`cloudflare (Create)`)
3. If creating, choose a package manager
4. The project will be created in `sandbox/cloudflare` and the dev server will start

For more details, see the [CLI documentation](/settings/local).

## Initialize the client

First, create a client instance with your API key.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient

client = AcontextClient(
    api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
)

# If you're using self-hosted Acontext:
# client = AcontextClient(
#     base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1",
#     api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
# )
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient } from '@acontext/acontext';

const client = new AcontextClient({
    apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
});

// If you're using self-hosted Acontext:
// const client = new AcontextClient({
//     baseUrl: "http://localhost:8029/api/v1",
//     apiKey: "sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
// });
```
</CodeGroup>

<Warning>
Never hardcode API keys in production code. Use environment variables instead.
</Warning>

## Step-by-step tutorial

<Steps>
<Step title="Create a sandbox">
Create a new isolated sandbox environment.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Create a new sandbox
sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()

print(f"Sandbox ID: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
print(f"Status: {sandbox.sandbox_status}")
print(f"Expires at: {sandbox.sandbox_expires_at}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Create a new sandbox
const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();

console.log(`Sandbox ID: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
console.log(`Status: ${sandbox.sandbox_status}`);
console.log(`Expires at: ${sandbox.sandbox_expires_at}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

The sandbox object contains:
- `sandbox_id`: Unique sandbox identifier
- `sandbox_status`: Current status (running, killed, paused, error)
- `sandbox_created_at`: ISO 8601 creation timestamp
- `sandbox_expires_at`: ISO 8601 expiration timestamp

<Check>
Save the sandbox ID - you'll need it to execute commands.
</Check>
</Step>

<Step title="Execute a command">
Run a shell command inside the sandbox and capture the output.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Execute a command
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="echo 'Hello from sandbox!' && pwd"
)

print(f"stdout: {result.stdout}")
print(f"stderr: {result.stderr}")
print(f"exit_code: {result.exit_code}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Execute a command
const result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "echo 'Hello from sandbox!' && pwd"
});

console.log(`stdout: ${result.stdout}`);
console.log(`stderr: ${result.stderr}`);
console.log(`exit_code: ${result.exit_code}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

The response includes:
- `stdout`: Standard output from the command
- `stderr`: Standard error from the command
- `exit_code`: Exit code (0 for success)

<Tip>
Chain multiple commands with `&&` or `;` to run them sequentially in a single call.
</Tip>
</Step>

<Step title="Kill the sandbox">
Terminate the sandbox when you're done.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Kill the sandbox
client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
print("Sandbox terminated")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Kill the sandbox
await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
console.log("Sandbox terminated");
```
</CodeGroup>

<Warning>
Sandboxes automatically expire after a timeout(default 30 minutes). 
Always kill sandboxes when finished to free up resources.
</Warning>
</Step>
</Steps>

### Complete example

Here's a complete working example that demonstrates the full workflow:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient

def main():
    # Initialize client
    client = AcontextClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
    )
    
    try:
        # Create sandbox
        sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
        print(f"✓ Created sandbox: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
        
        # Execute commands
        result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="python3 --version"
        )
        print(f"✓ Python version: {result.stdout.strip()}")
        
        # Run a Python script
        result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="python3 -c 'print(sum(range(10)))'"
        )
        print(f"✓ Script output: {result.stdout.strip()}")
        
        # Clean up
        client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
        print("✓ Sandbox terminated")
        
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"✗ Error: {e}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient } from '@acontext/acontext';

async function main() {
    // Initialize client
    const client = new AcontextClient({
        apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
    });
    
    try {
        // Create sandbox
        const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
        console.log(`✓ Created sandbox: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
        
        // Execute commands
        let result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "python3 --version"
        });
        console.log(`✓ Python version: ${result.stdout.trim()}`);
        
        // Run a Python script
        result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "python3 -c 'print(sum(range(10)))'"
        });
        console.log(`✓ Script output: ${result.stdout.trim()}`);
        
        // Clean up
        await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
        console.log("✓ Sandbox terminated");
        
    } catch (error) {
        console.error(`✗ Error: ${error}`);
    }
}

main();
```
</CodeGroup>

## Filesystem

Use the [Disk API](/store/disk) to persist files and transfer them to/from sandboxes. This enables workflows where you prepare files, process them in a sandbox, and save the results.

<Steps>
<Step title="Create a disk and sandbox">
Set up both a disk for persistent storage and a sandbox for execution.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Create a disk for file storage
disk = client.disks.create()
print(f"Disk ID: {disk.id}")

# Create a sandbox for execution
sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
print(f"Sandbox ID: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Create a disk for file storage
const disk = await client.disks.create();
console.log(`Disk ID: ${disk.id}`);

// Create a sandbox for execution
const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
console.log(`Sandbox ID: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Upload a file to disk">
Upload a file to your disk that you want to process in the sandbox.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from acontext import FileUpload

# Upload a script to the disk
artifact = client.disks.artifacts.upsert(
    disk.id,
    file=FileUpload(
        filename="data.txt",
        content=b"Hello from disk!\nProcess this in sandbox."
    ),
    file_path="/input/"
)
print(f"Uploaded: {artifact.path}{artifact.filename}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { FileUpload } from '@acontext/acontext';

// Upload a script to the disk
const artifact = await client.disks.artifacts.upsert(disk.id, {
    file: new FileUpload({
        filename: "data.txt",
        content: Buffer.from("Hello from disk!\nProcess this in sandbox."),
        contentType: "text/plain"
    }),
    filePath: "/input/"
});
console.log(`Uploaded: ${artifact.path}${artifact.filename}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Download file to sandbox">
Transfer the file from disk to the sandbox filesystem.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Download artifact to sandbox
success = client.disks.artifacts.download_to_sandbox(
    disk_id=disk.id,
    file_path="/input/",
    filename="data.txt",
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandbox_path="/workspace/"
)
print(f"Download success: {success}")

# Verify the file exists in sandbox
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="cat /workspace/data.txt"
)
print(f"File content: {result.stdout}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Download artifact to sandbox
const success = await client.disks.artifacts.downloadToSandbox(disk.id, {
    filePath: "/input/",
    filename: "data.txt",
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandboxPath: "/workspace/"
});
console.log(`Download success: ${success}`);

// Verify the file exists in sandbox
const result = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "cat /workspace/data.txt"
});
console.log(`File content: ${result.stdout}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
The file is copied to the sandbox at the specified path. The original filename is preserved.
</Note>
</Step>

<Step title="Process and create output">
Run commands in the sandbox to process files and generate output.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Process the file and create output
client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="wc -l /workspace/data.txt > /workspace/result.txt"
)

# Verify the output
result = client.sandboxes.exec_command(
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command="cat /workspace/result.txt"
)
print(f"Result: {result.stdout}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Process the file and create output
await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "wc -l /workspace/data.txt > /workspace/result.txt"
});

// Verify the output
const output = await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    command: "cat /workspace/result.txt"
});
console.log(`Result: ${output.stdout}`);
```
</CodeGroup>
</Step>

<Step title="Upload result to disk">
Save the processed output from the sandbox back to persistent disk storage.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Upload the result from sandbox to disk
uploaded = client.disks.artifacts.upload_from_sandbox(
    disk_id=disk.id,
    sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandbox_path="/workspace/",
    sandbox_filename="result.txt",
    file_path="/output/"
)
print(f"Saved: {uploaded.path}{uploaded.filename}")

# Verify by reading from disk
artifact_info = client.disks.artifacts.get(
    disk.id,
    file_path="/output/",
    filename="result.txt",
    with_content=True
)
print(f"Persisted content: {artifact_info.content.raw}")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Upload the result from sandbox to disk
const uploaded = await client.disks.artifacts.uploadFromSandbox(disk.id, {
    sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
    sandboxPath: "/workspace/",
    sandboxFilename: "result.txt",
    filePath: "/output/"
});
console.log(`Saved: ${uploaded.path}${uploaded.filename}`);

// Verify by reading from disk
const artifactInfo = await client.disks.artifacts.get(disk.id, {
    filePath: "/output/",
    filename: "result.txt",
    withContent: true
});
console.log(`Persisted content: ${artifactInfo.content?.raw}`);
```
</CodeGroup>

<Check>
Your processed file is now safely stored on the disk and will persist after the sandbox is terminated.
</Check>
</Step>

<Step title="Clean up">
Terminate the sandbox when processing is complete.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
# Kill the sandbox (disk persists)
client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
print("Sandbox terminated, files preserved on disk")
```

```typescript TypeScript
// Kill the sandbox (disk persists)
await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
console.log("Sandbox terminated, files preserved on disk");
```
</CodeGroup>

<Tip>
The disk and its files remain available after the sandbox is killed. You can download them later or transfer to a new sandbox.
</Tip>
</Step>
</Steps>

### Complete example

Here's a complete working example that demonstrates the full disk-sandbox file transfer workflow:

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
import os
from acontext import AcontextClient, FileUpload

def main():
    client = AcontextClient(
        api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY"),
    )
    
    try:
        # Create disk and sandbox
        disk = client.disks.create()
        sandbox = client.sandboxes.create()
        print(f"✓ Created disk: {disk.id}")
        print(f"✓ Created sandbox: {sandbox.sandbox_id}")
        
        # Upload input file to disk
        client.disks.artifacts.upsert(
            disk.id,
            file=FileUpload(filename="input.txt", content=b"Line 1\nLine 2\nLine 3"),
            file_path="/input/"
        )
        print("✓ Uploaded input file to disk")
        
        # Download to sandbox
        client.disks.artifacts.download_to_sandbox(
            disk_id=disk.id,
            file_path="/input/",
            filename="input.txt",
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandbox_path="/workspace/"
        )
        print("✓ Downloaded file to sandbox")
        
        # Process in sandbox
        client.sandboxes.exec_command(
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command="wc -l /workspace/input.txt > /workspace/output.txt"
        )
        print("✓ Processed file in sandbox")
        
        # Upload result back to disk
        client.disks.artifacts.upload_from_sandbox(
            disk_id=disk.id,
            sandbox_id=sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandbox_path="/workspace/",
            sandbox_filename="output.txt",
            file_path="/output/"
        )
        print("✓ Uploaded result to disk")
        
        # Verify result
        result = client.disks.artifacts.get(
            disk.id,
            file_path="/output/",
            filename="output.txt",
            with_content=True
        )
        print(f"✓ Result: {result.content.raw.strip()}")
        
        # Cleanup
        client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id)
        client.disks.delete(disk.id)
        print("✓ Cleaned up resources")
        
    except Exception as e:
        print(f"✗ Error: {e}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

```typescript TypeScript
import { AcontextClient, FileUpload } from '@acontext/acontext';

async function main() {
    const client = new AcontextClient({
        apiKey: process.env.ACONTEXT_API_KEY,
    });
    
    try {
        // Create disk and sandbox
        const disk = await client.disks.create();
        const sandbox = await client.sandboxes.create();
        console.log(`✓ Created disk: ${disk.id}`);
        console.log(`✓ Created sandbox: ${sandbox.sandbox_id}`);
        
        // Upload input file to disk
        await client.disks.artifacts.upsert(disk.id, {
            file: new FileUpload({
                filename: "input.txt",
                content: Buffer.from("Line 1\nLine 2\nLine 3"),
                contentType: "text/plain"
            }),
            filePath: "/input/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Uploaded input file to disk");
        
        // Download to sandbox
        await client.disks.artifacts.downloadToSandbox(disk.id, {
            filePath: "/input/",
            filename: "input.txt",
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandboxPath: "/workspace/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Downloaded file to sandbox");
        
        // Process in sandbox
        await client.sandboxes.execCommand({
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            command: "wc -l /workspace/input.txt > /workspace/output.txt"
        });
        console.log("✓ Processed file in sandbox");
        
        // Upload result back to disk
        await client.disks.artifacts.uploadFromSandbox(disk.id, {
            sandboxId: sandbox.sandbox_id,
            sandboxPath: "/workspace/",
            sandboxFilename: "output.txt",
            filePath: "/output/"
        });
        console.log("✓ Uploaded result to disk");
        
        // Verify result
        const result = await client.disks.artifacts.get(disk.id, {
            filePath: "/output/",
            filename: "output.txt",
            withContent: true
        });
        console.log(`✓ Result: ${result.content?.raw.trim()}`);
        
        // Cleanup
        await client.sandboxes.kill(sandbox.sandbox_id);
        await client.disks.delete(disk.id);
        console.log("✓ Cleaned up resources");
        
    } catch (error) {
        console.error(`✗ Error: ${error}`);
    }
}

main();
```
</CodeGroup>

## Common use cases

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Code execution" icon="play">
Run user-submitted code safely in an isolated environment without risking your host system.
</Card>

<Card title="Script testing" icon="flask">
Test shell scripts, installation procedures, or build processes in a clean environment.
</Card>

<Card title="Agent tools" icon="robot">
Give AI agents the ability to execute commands and interact with a file system safely.
</Card>

<Card title="Data processing" icon="gears">
Run data transformation scripts or command-line tools on files without affecting your main system.
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Troubleshooting

<AccordionGroup>
<Accordion title="Command timeout">
**Problem**: Command takes too long and times out.

**Solution**: 
- Break long-running commands into smaller steps
- Check if the command is waiting for input (use non-interactive flags)
- Consider running background processes if needed
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Sandbox not found">
**Problem**: Getting a 404 error when executing commands.

**Solution**: 
- Verify the sandbox ID is correct
- Check if the sandbox has expired or been killed
- Create a new sandbox if the previous one is no longer available
</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Command fails with non-zero exit code">
**Problem**: Command returns a non-zero exit code.

**Solution**: 
- Check `stderr` for error messages
- Verify the command syntax is correct
- Ensure required tools are available in the sandbox environment
</Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>
