docs/observe/buffer.mdx, before:

---
title: "Session Buffer Mechanism"
description: "Acontext will batch process the messages in the session to optimize costs."
---


## Wait until it's full
Acontext will start to process the messages once the buffer is full (*i.e.* unprocessed message turns >= `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_MAX_TURNS`)


So if your `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_MAX_TURNS` is 3:
```python example
# this sending won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.send_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message1
)

# this sending won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.send_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message2
)

# will trigger the processing immediately
client.sessions.send_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message3
)
```

## Wait until it's IDLE
Acontext will start to process the messages once the buffer is IDLE for a while (*i.e.* no new messages for `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_TTL_SECONDS` seconds)

So if your `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_TTL_SECONDS` is 3:
```python example
# this sending won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.send_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message1
)

sleep(3)
# Acontext will start to process the messages in background.
```


## Force Buffer Processing
You can force the buffer processing by calling the `flush` method:

```python flush
client.sessions.flush(session_id="session-uuid")
```

## Customization

<CardGroup cols={1}>

<Card title="Settings" icon="gear" href="/settings/runtime">
  Customize the behavior of Buffer.
</Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

refactor(api, sdk-py, sdk-ts, ui, docs): rename send_message to store_message across documentation and codebase (#87)

docs/observe/buffer.mdx, after:

---
title: "Session Buffer Mechanism"
description: "Acontext will batch process the messages in the session to optimize costs."
---


## Wait until it's full
Acontext will start to process the messages once the buffer is full (*i.e.* unprocessed message turns >= `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_MAX_TURNS`)


So if your `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_MAX_TURNS` is 3:
```python example
# this storing won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.store_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message1
)

# this storing won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.store_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message2
)

# will trigger the processing immediately
client.sessions.store_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message3
)
```

## Wait until it's IDLE
Acontext will start to process the messages once the buffer is IDLE for a while (*i.e.* no new messages for `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_TTL_SECONDS` seconds)

So if your `PROJECT_SESSION_MESSAGE_BUFFER_TTL_SECONDS` is 3:
```python example
# this storing won't be processed immediately
client.sessions.store_message(
    session_id="session-uuid",
    blob=message1
)

sleep(3)
# Acontext will start to process the messages in background.
```


## Force Buffer Processing
You can force the buffer processing by calling the `flush` method:

```python flush
client.sessions.flush(session_id="session-uuid")
```

## Customization

<CardGroup cols={1}>

<Card title="Settings" icon="gear" href="/settings/runtime">
  Customize the behavior of Buffer.
</Card>
</CardGroup>
