docs/integrations/agno.mdx, before:

---
title: "Agno"
description: "Integrate Agno multi-agent framework with Acontext for session persistence, task extraction, and automatic learning"
---

Agno is a Python framework for building multi-agent systems. 
When integrated with Acontext, you get persistent session management, automatic task extraction, and the ability for your agents to learn from completed interactions.

## What This Integration Provides

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Session Persistence" icon="database">
Store conversation history across multiple agent runs and resume sessions seamlessly
</Card>

<Card title="Task Extraction" icon="list-check">
Automatically identify and track tasks from agent conversations with progress updates
</Card>

<Card title="User Preferences" icon="user">
Capture and learn from user preferences expressed during conversations
</Card>

<Card title="Experience Learning" icon="sparkles">
Enable agents to search and reuse learned skills from past successful interactions
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Quick Start

### Download Template

Use `acontext-cli` to quickly set up an Agno project with Acontext integration:

```bash
acontext create my-agno-project --template-path "python/agno-basic"
```

<Note>
If you haven't installed `acontext-cli` yet, install it first:
```bash
curl -fsSL https://install.acontext.io | sh
```
</Note>

### Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

<Steps>
<Step title="Install dependencies">
Install Agno and Acontext Python packages:

```bash
uv sync
```

Or with pip:
```bash
pip install agno acontext python-dotenv
```
</Step>

<Step title="Configure environment">
Create a `.env` file with your API credentials:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
ACONTEXT_API_KEY=sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token
ACONTEXT_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8029/api/v1
```

<Warning>
Never commit API keys to version control. Always use environment variables or secure secret management.
</Warning>
</Step>

<Step title="Initialize Acontext client">
Create an Acontext client instance:

```python
from acontext import AcontextClient
import os

acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY", "sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token"),
    base_url=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_BASE_URL", "http://localhost:8029/api/v1"),
)
```
</Step>
</Steps>

## How It Works

The Agno integration works by sending conversation messages to Acontext in OpenAI message format. Agno's message format is compatible with Acontext, so no conversion is needed.

### Message Flow

1. **Create session**: Initialize a new Acontext session for your agent
2. **Send messages**: Append each message (user and assistant) to Acontext as the conversation progresses
3. **Extract tasks**: After the conversation, flush the session and retrieve extracted tasks
4. **Resume sessions**: Load previous conversation history to continue where you left off

### Basic Integration Pattern

Here's the core pattern for integrating Agno with Acontext:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from acontext import AcontextClient

# Initialize Acontext client
acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
    base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1"
)

# Create Agno agent
agent = Agent(
    name="Assistant",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4"),
    instructions="You are a helpful assistant",
)

# Create Acontext session
space = acontext_client.spaces.create()
session = acontext_client.sessions.create(space_id=space.id)

# Build conversation and send to Acontext
conversation = []
user_msg = {"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}
conversation.append(user_msg)
acontext_client.sessions.send_message(session_id=session.id, blob=user_msg)

# Run agent
response = agent.run(conversation)

# Send assistant response to Acontext
assistant_msg = {"role": "assistant", "content": response.content}
conversation.append(assistant_msg)
acontext_client.sessions.send_message(session_id=session.id, blob=assistant_msg)
```

## Complete Example

This example demonstrates a multi-turn conversation with task extraction:

```python
import asyncio
from agno.agent import Agent, RunOutput
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from acontext import AcontextClient

acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
    base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1"
)

@tool
def get_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Returns weather info for the specified city."""
    return f"The weather in {city} is sunny"

def create_agno_agent() -> Agent:
    return Agent(
        name="Assistant",
        model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4"),
        instructions="You are a helpful assistant",
        tools=[get_weather],
    )

def append_message(message: dict, conversation: list[dict], session_id: str):
    conversation.append(message)
    acontext_client.sessions.send_message(session_id=session_id, blob=message)
    return conversation

async def main():
    # Create space and session
    space = acontext_client.spaces.create()
    session = acontext_client.sessions.create(space_id=space.id)
    
    agent = create_agno_agent()
    conversation = []
    
    # First interaction
    user_msg = {"role": "user", "content": "Plan a 3-day trip to Finland"}
    conversation = append_message(user_msg, conversation, session.id)
    
    response: RunOutput = agent.run(conversation)
    assistant_msg = {"role": "assistant", "content": response.content}
    conversation = append_message(assistant_msg, conversation, session.id)
    
    # Flush and extract tasks
    acontext_client.sessions.flush(session.id)
    tasks_response = acontext_client.sessions.get_tasks(session.id)
    
    print("Extracted tasks:")
    for task in tasks_response.items:
        print(f"Task: {task.data.task_description}")
        print(f"Status: {task.status}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Key Features

### Session Persistence

Resume conversations by loading previous messages from Acontext:

```python
# Load previous conversation
messages = acontext_client.sessions.get_messages(session_id)
conversation = messages.items

# Continue conversation
conversation.append({"role": "user", "content": "Summarize our conversation"})
response = agent.run(conversation)
```

### Task Extraction

After completing a conversation, extract tasks with their status and metadata:

```python
# Flush session to trigger task extraction
acontext_client.sessions.flush(session_id)

# Retrieve extracted tasks
tasks_response = acontext_client.sessions.get_tasks(session_id)

for task in tasks_response.items:
    print(f"Task: {task.data.task_description}")
    print(f"Status: {task.status}")
    
    # Access progress updates if available
    if task.data.progresses:
        for progress in task.data.progresses:
            print(f"  Progress: {progress}")
    
    # Access user preferences if available
    if task.data.user_preferences:
        for pref in task.data.user_preferences:
            print(f"  Preference: {pref}")
```

### Experience Search

Search for learned experiences from past successful interactions:

```python
# Wait for learning to complete
while True:
    status = acontext_client.sessions.get_learning_status(session_id)
    if status.not_space_digested_count == 0:
        break
    sleep(1)

# Search for relevant experiences
experiences = acontext_client.spaces.experience_search(
    space_id=space_id,
    query="travel with flight",
    mode="fast"
)
print(experiences)
```

## Message Format Compatibility

Agno uses OpenAI-compatible message format, which works seamlessly with Acontext:

```python
# Agno message format (compatible with Acontext)
message = {
    "role": "user",  # or "assistant"
    "content": "Your message here"
}

# Send directly to Acontext - no conversion needed
acontext_client.sessions.send_message(session_id=session_id, blob=message)
```

<Info>
Agno's `RunOutput.messages` can be converted to dictionaries using `[m.to_dict() for m in response.messages]`, which produces Acontext-compatible message format.
</Info>

## Best Practices

<Tip>
**Batch message sending**: For better performance, you can batch multiple messages before sending them to Acontext, but ensure you send them in chronological order.
</Tip>

<Tip>
**Tool execution tracking**: Acontext automatically tracks tool calls and their results when messages are sent, providing full observability of your agent's actions.
</Tip>


<Tip>
In your production agent, you don't need to call `flush` method after each conversation, 
Acontext will automatically flush the buffer when the buffer is full or IDLE. To understand the buffer mechanism, please refer to [Session Buffer Mechanism](/observe/buffer).
</Tip>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Observability" icon="eye" href="/observe/agent_tasks">
Monitor what your agent plans vs. what it executes
</Card>

<Card title="Skill Learning" icon="sparkles" href="/learn/skill-space">
Enable your agent to learn from completed tasks
</Card>

<Card title="Dashboard" icon="chart-simple" href="/observe/dashboard">
View all agent interactions in one place
</Card>

<Card title="API Reference" icon="book" href="/api-reference/introduction">
Explore the full Acontext API
</Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

refactor(api, sdk-py, sdk-ts, ui, docs): rename send_message to store_message across documentation and codebase

docs/integrations/agno.mdx, after:

---
title: "Agno"
description: "Integrate Agno multi-agent framework with Acontext for session persistence, task extraction, and automatic learning"
---

Agno is a Python framework for building multi-agent systems. 
When integrated with Acontext, you get persistent session management, automatic task extraction, and the ability for your agents to learn from completed interactions.

## What This Integration Provides

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Session Persistence" icon="database">
Store conversation history across multiple agent runs and resume sessions seamlessly
</Card>

<Card title="Task Extraction" icon="list-check">
Automatically identify and track tasks from agent conversations with progress updates
</Card>

<Card title="User Preferences" icon="user">
Capture and learn from user preferences expressed during conversations
</Card>

<Card title="Experience Learning" icon="sparkles">
Enable agents to search and reuse learned skills from past successful interactions
</Card>
</CardGroup>

## Quick Start

### Download Template

Use `acontext-cli` to quickly set up an Agno project with Acontext integration:

```bash
acontext create my-agno-project --template-path "python/agno-basic"
```

<Note>
If you haven't installed `acontext-cli` yet, install it first:
```bash
curl -fsSL https://install.acontext.io | sh
```
</Note>

### Manual Setup

If you prefer to set up manually:

<Steps>
<Step title="Install dependencies">
Install Agno and Acontext Python packages:

```bash
uv sync
```

Or with pip:
```bash
pip install agno acontext python-dotenv
```
</Step>

<Step title="Configure environment">
Create a `.env` file with your API credentials:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_key_here
ACONTEXT_API_KEY=sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token
ACONTEXT_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8029/api/v1
```

<Warning>
Never commit API keys to version control. Always use environment variables or secure secret management.
</Warning>
</Step>

<Step title="Initialize Acontext client">
Create an Acontext client instance:

```python
from acontext import AcontextClient
import os

acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_API_KEY", "sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token"),
    base_url=os.getenv("ACONTEXT_BASE_URL", "http://localhost:8029/api/v1"),
)
```
</Step>
</Steps>

## How It Works

The Agno integration works by storing conversation messages to Acontext in OpenAI message format. Agno's message format is compatible with Acontext, so no conversion is needed.

### Message Flow

1. **Create session**: Initialize a new Acontext session for your agent
2. **Store messages**: Append each message (user and assistant) to Acontext as the conversation progresses
3. **Extract tasks**: After the conversation, flush the session and retrieve extracted tasks
4. **Resume sessions**: Load previous conversation history to continue where you left off

### Basic Integration Pattern

Here's the core pattern for integrating Agno with Acontext:

```python
from agno.agent import Agent
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from acontext import AcontextClient

# Initialize Acontext client
acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
    base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1"
)

# Create Agno agent
agent = Agent(
    name="Assistant",
    model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4"),
    instructions="You are a helpful assistant",
)

# Create Acontext session
space = acontext_client.spaces.create()
session = acontext_client.sessions.create(space_id=space.id)

# Build conversation and store to Acontext
conversation = []
user_msg = {"role": "user", "content": "Hello!"}
conversation.append(user_msg)
acontext_client.sessions.store_message(session_id=session.id, blob=user_msg)

# Run agent
response = agent.run(conversation)

# Store assistant response to Acontext
assistant_msg = {"role": "assistant", "content": response.content}
conversation.append(assistant_msg)
acontext_client.sessions.store_message(session_id=session.id, blob=assistant_msg)
```

## Complete Example

This example demonstrates a multi-turn conversation with task extraction:

```python
import asyncio
from agno.agent import Agent, RunOutput
from agno.models.openai import OpenAIChat
from agno.tools import tool
from acontext import AcontextClient

acontext_client = AcontextClient(
    api_key="sk-ac-your-root-api-bearer-token",
    base_url="http://localhost:8029/api/v1"
)

@tool
def get_weather(city: str) -> str:
    """Returns weather info for the specified city."""
    return f"The weather in {city} is sunny"

def create_agno_agent() -> Agent:
    return Agent(
        name="Assistant",
        model=OpenAIChat(id="gpt-4"),
        instructions="You are a helpful assistant",
        tools=[get_weather],
    )

def append_message(message: dict, conversation: list[dict], session_id: str):
    conversation.append(message)
    acontext_client.sessions.store_message(session_id=session_id, blob=message)
    return conversation

async def main():
    # Create space and session
    space = acontext_client.spaces.create()
    session = acontext_client.sessions.create(space_id=space.id)
    
    agent = create_agno_agent()
    conversation = []
    
    # First interaction
    user_msg = {"role": "user", "content": "Plan a 3-day trip to Finland"}
    conversation = append_message(user_msg, conversation, session.id)
    
    response: RunOutput = agent.run(conversation)
    assistant_msg = {"role": "assistant", "content": response.content}
    conversation = append_message(assistant_msg, conversation, session.id)
    
    # Flush and extract tasks
    acontext_client.sessions.flush(session.id)
    tasks_response = acontext_client.sessions.get_tasks(session.id)
    
    print("Extracted tasks:")
    for task in tasks_response.items:
        print(f"Task: {task.data.task_description}")
        print(f"Status: {task.status}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(main())
```

## Key Features

### Session Persistence

Resume conversations by loading previous messages from Acontext:

```python
# Load previous conversation
messages = acontext_client.sessions.get_messages(session_id)
conversation = messages.items

# Continue conversation
conversation.append({"role": "user", "content": "Summarize our conversation"})
response = agent.run(conversation)
```

### Task Extraction

After completing a conversation, extract tasks with their status and metadata:

```python
# Flush session to trigger task extraction
acontext_client.sessions.flush(session_id)

# Retrieve extracted tasks
tasks_response = acontext_client.sessions.get_tasks(session_id)

for task in tasks_response.items:
    print(f"Task: {task.data.task_description}")
    print(f"Status: {task.status}")
    
    # Access progress updates if available
    if task.data.progresses:
        for progress in task.data.progresses:
            print(f"  Progress: {progress}")
    
    # Access user preferences if available
    if task.data.user_preferences:
        for pref in task.data.user_preferences:
            print(f"  Preference: {pref}")
```

### Experience Search

Search for learned experiences from past successful interactions:

```python
# Wait for learning to complete
while True:
    status = acontext_client.sessions.get_learning_status(session_id)
    if status.not_space_digested_count == 0:
        break
    sleep(1)

# Search for relevant experiences
experiences = acontext_client.spaces.experience_search(
    space_id=space_id,
    query="travel with flight",
    mode="fast"
)
print(experiences)
```

## Message Format Compatibility

Agno uses OpenAI-compatible message format, which works seamlessly with Acontext:

```python
# Agno message format (compatible with Acontext)
message = {
    "role": "user",  # or "assistant"
    "content": "Your message here"
}

# Store directly to Acontext - no conversion needed
acontext_client.sessions.store_message(session_id=session_id, blob=message)
```

<Info>
Agno's `RunOutput.messages` can be converted to dictionaries using `[m.to_dict() for m in response.messages]`, which produces Acontext-compatible message format.
</Info>

## Best Practices

<Tip>
**Batch message storing**: For better performance, you can batch multiple messages before storing them to Acontext, but ensure you store them in chronological order.
</Tip>

<Tip>
**Tool execution tracking**: Acontext automatically tracks tool calls and their results when messages are sent, providing full observability of your agent's actions.
</Tip>


<Tip>
In your production agent, you don't need to call `flush` method after each conversation, 
Acontext will automatically flush the buffer when the buffer is full or IDLE. To understand the buffer mechanism, please refer to [Session Buffer Mechanism](/observe/buffer).
</Tip>

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
<Card title="Observability" icon="eye" href="/observe/agent_tasks">
Monitor what your agent plans vs. what it executes
</Card>

<Card title="Skill Learning" icon="sparkles" href="/learn/skill-space">
Enable your agent to learn from completed tasks
</Card>

<Card title="Dashboard" icon="chart-simple" href="/observe/dashboard">
View all agent interactions in one place
</Card>

<Card title="API Reference" icon="book" href="/api-reference/introduction">
Explore the full Acontext API
</Card>
</CardGroup>
